Guide For Windows (Similar for other OS):
0. Whenever you connect Pi to PC, you can do USB to USB (The usb on pi, not power port should both give power and data so only one cable is needed). Whenever you are messing with OS file and installation you connect SD card to pc SD card slot or some USB dongle.
1. Use appropriate Pi OS version for your device. For Pi Zero 2 W I could only get Bullseye and later OS to run. However Bookworm (next os version after bullseye) has NetworkManager instead of DHCPD so therefore does not work from the get go. I.E to fix this you need to find a different way to program your pi (e.g. through monitor and keyboard connection) to first uninstall Network Manager or install DHCPD.
2. Or (For Bookworm and later versions) download and replace the following config files in the "ConfigFiles" folder (On Windows Need to use a separate Linux File system viewer program e.g. Freeware linux reader). Or use Bullseye & Below.
3. For all versions in config.txt add to the end of the file dtoverlay=dwc2 on the SD card with the os (can be just done through windows file manager)
4. For all versions in cmdline.txt add after rootwait modules-load=dwc2,g_ether on the SD card with the os (can be just done through windows file manager)
5. On winodws install the driver "mod-duo-mdis" in device manager for the device (pi) - it may come up in COM port or USB, for this you must got to view at top of window and select show hidden devices from drop down menu. You can check what device it is by plugging in the pi through usb on the pi to usb on pc and connecting and disconnecting to see what changes (grays out). Once done it will show as a USB RDNIS device in Network Devices section.
6. Finally, once driver is installed go into "View Network Connections" on windows and it should appear there, though may not have the right name and be called something like Ethernet 3.
7. Then you must create a network bridge by selecting your internet (wifi or ethernet) and the pi (e.g. Ethernet 3) and clicking bridge connection. If you already have one you must change network bridge settings by pressing properties and then configure and then the following boxes must be selected XYZ and in the network to bridge your pi device must be written as how it comes up such as for me "Ethernet 3".
8. Now using something like Putty you can SSH on port 22 into the pi, login using the username and password and use terminal as usual.